---
{"dg-publish":true,"dg-permalink":"experiences","permalink":"/experiences/","dgHomeLink":true,"dgPassFrontmatter":false}
---


## Map your own Pivotal Moments

Look back at the endings in your life. They’re usually found in our losses, our loves or related to our life. Create your own timeline. See the connections and the milestones you have passed along the way.

How have these pivotal moments brought you here? How have you been shaped by some of your experiences?

Perhaps journal on these ideas. Or, if you’re happy to share your insights, add them here.

> There will come a time when you believe everything is finished; that will be the beginning.
> 
> Louis L'Amour

When we look back over the Endings in our lives, it becomes easier to see that many of them were pivotal moments. Catalysts that launched us on to a new path, a new chapter in our lives, and a new beginning.

You don’t have to share details if you prefer not to, but, in hindsight, can you trace the milestones that have led you to this point in your life?

---

When we look back over the Endings in our lives, it becomes easier to see that many of them were pivotal moments. Catalysts that launched us on to a new path, a new chapter in our lives, and a new beginning.

You don’t have to share details if you prefer not to, but, in hindsight, can you trace the milestones that have led you to this point in your life?

---

## Creed

---

## What are your Inputs?

What do you want your world to look like?
What type of world do you want to create?

Choose
Then do things that align with that vision/vibration

Let go of what doesn't align
Allow it to move away
Release it

## What Brings You Joy?

A little like Julia Roberts in Runaway Bride, we often suppress our own preferences to align with others.

> IKE You are the most lost woman I have ever laid eyes on.
> 
> MAGGIE Lost!
> 
> IKE That's right. You're so lost you don't even know how you like your eggs.
> 
> MAGGIE What!?
> 
> IKE With the priest, you liked them scrambled. With the Dead Head, fried. With the bug guy, poached. Now it's egg whites only, thank you very much.
> 
> _Later in the film Maggie cooks eggs of every type and, finally, knows what she likes._
> 
> MAGGIE Benedict.
> 
> Ike has no response.
> 
> MAGGIE I love eggs Benedict. I hate all the other kinds.

Eggs might be a simple example but one we can all relate to.

-   Where do you compromise your own preferences? How can you do more of what you love?
    
-   To connect to our essence, we need peace and quiet to be able to listen to our own soul and intuition. My favourite way of doing this is to spend time alone in nature. It’s the best way to withdraw from the noise and busyness and quieten the mind.
    
-   Make a list of what brings you joy.
    
-   What is your taste in food, drink, films, books, art and music?

---

🌀 ***return to [Live Life Gently](https://livelifegently.co.uk/)***