---
{"dg-publish":true,"dg-permalink":"thevoid","permalink":"/thevoid/"}
---


> It is by going down into the abyss that we recover the treasures of life. Where you stumble, there lies your treasure ~ Joseph Campbell

We always hope, after a big upheaval, change or a shift, that life will revert back to normal. We set it as a goal to be achieved, one that will signify that we’ve made it through and come out the other end.

But, life never returns to normal. It becomes what we will eventually class as normal – for the duration. Whatever has shifted for us has changed us, irrevocably. We are no longer the same person we were before. We can’t be. Our experience has taught us something new about life, whether or not we are cognisant of that at the time.

Navigating change is about releasing and letting go. An ending has taken place and there’s no going back. We have to make room for the new.

Change opens doors, leads to new beginnings and transforms us in ways we might never have imagined.

After the ending you have the void, a period designed for healing, regrouping, a space to contemplate what has happened and to try to come to terms with it.

### Read More

[[10. Publishing/Book/Posts/when you're ebbing rather than flowing you might need to refill the well\|when you're ebbing rather than flowing you might need to refill the well]]
[[10. Publishing/Book/Posts/how the tide will finally turn after periods of limbo\|how the tide will finally turn after periods of limbo]]

---

Return to [[10. Publishing/Book/table of contents\|table of contents]]